Now that you had an introduction to what I wanted to is and the prerequisites off this course it's time
to get started.
And what better way to get started than to install on to create our first application for this.
We will first need to install node.
J.S. now no chases a server side language.
And the word is we're not going to develop any server side application of course but we will need no
yes for two reasons.
The major reason is that we will use NPM notes package manager which is kind of the facto package management
tool when we talk about front end development or app development here.
So this will be a tool we use to install the dependencies are projects need for example English you
in fact does will be done automatically for us.
But still we will need this package installed and we will need no chess itself because the ionic framework
or onic toolset we will use also ships with a little development server which allows us to preview our
app in the browser.
You will see this in a second.
And for this it needs no chest to spin up.
A simple development server.
So make sure to download the latest version here.
Seven point four in my case though 6.9 should also work but should be on the safe side by picking latest
one simply downloaded walk for the installer and once installation finished you have no chance and installed
and you are ready to continue with the next steps.
The next step takes us to the command line or terminal.
There we need to install ionic and Cordoba.
This step has only to be executed once and you will need to do that to get the ionic CLID toolset which
then allows you to create ionic projects Anzalone to install ionic in Cordova.
We will use NPM so you can type NPM.
This command is now available since you installed node.
JS NPM install and then we need ionic and Cordoba.
These two packages make sure to add the dash d flag at the end to get the glow or to install it globally.
I should say so that you can execute the a command from anywhere on your machine and on Windows you
can hit enter on Mac and Linux you probably need to add a pseudo in front of it to get the right permissions.
After hitting enter you might be prompted to enter a password and thereafter the installation will begin.
Now this can take a couple of minutes or at least quite some time and I'll be back once it finished
so the installation finished on my machine.
And with that we're ready to create our first I want it to project and therefore our first application.
Make sure to navigate into a folder where you want to create the project.
Here in my case I am already in such a folder.
You can then run ironic.
This command is now available since you globally install a onic Iyonix start will create a new project.
Then you simply enter your project name.
This can be first for example or whichever name you want to use.
Now you could hit enter but that would give you an ironic one project we want to do today on to project
using angle or 2 though.
Therefore we need to add dash dash 2 as a flag.
Now with this hit enter and this will create a new folder.
The first app folder and it will create your first project initiate all the dependencies and so on and
it will take a couple of seconds and thereafter we're ready to view our first reader application.
See you in a second the project set up process finish your mission.
And with that I can now navigate into this newly created folder.
So the first app and then there you can now run Unix serve the surf command center and I recommend offered
by the onic Seelye and it will compile your application to javascript as SNH team.
Not to a native app yet.
I will later show you how to do this.
And then it will spin up a little development server running at the address you see here which will
host your application.
Sounds strange.
Well more about that in a second.
Let's view or at first.
Here it is in this browser window here it automatically open this window if it doesn't do that for you.
Navigate there manually.
It shows our first ironic app and it was just a default start a project on X like creates We will later
learn how to create empty projects.
Now this certainly looks strange seeing mobile in quotation marks AB run in the browser.
And keep in mind it is no mobile app yet.
It's a javascript's Yes.
SAGAL app we haven't compiled it to a native app yet.
The great thing is this browser window this app running in the browser is a great place to test your
application because it will watch your files.
This process keeps running and will automatically recompile whenever you change something.
And therefore you have a quick and easy way of seeing your application and testing your features.
That being said you of course won't be able to test features like the device camera and so on.
But again we will later learn how to test our native devices and how to ship it on native devices.
But generally you typically use that browser app to develop the majority of your application because
it's so fast so easy to debug and such a great tool for development.
Now again it looks strange like this but in Chrome which I recommend using you can open up your developer
tools and there you have this device mode here which you can toggle by clicking on this mobile phone
iPad like I can here.
This will switch to device mode and now it looks much more like an application running on the device.
Here you can even choose which device you want to simulate.
Make sure to reload the page.
If you switch to the wise and then you see how the app will look like on the DeWyze.
Now that being said it's not 100 percent correct emulation.
It's still in the browser in the end but it gives you a pretty good feeling of how it will look and
work like in the end.
And it also switches between the US style and the material designed for Android.
If you switch to the wise as you can see by the icons here at the bottom and to click effect when I
click on it.
So it is pretty powerful and it does more than just switch the stylus it really emulates a mobile phone
as far as a browser can do that.
So this will actually be the mode we will work in the majority of the course just because it's so easy
to debug and to work with.
And with that I'd say we got our first application.
We got a couple of taps here.
Now let's change something about this application to really get a feeling on how to work with ionic
to